---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2015-12-24T14:12:21.225Z'
dateModified: '2015-12-24T14:09:25.117Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-12-24-b078e9fa-5819-43c3-b3df-50c2b1374314.md
published: true
url: b078e9fa-5819-43c3-b3df-50c2b1374314/index.html
_type: Article

---
Here's a recap of what was shared at our last Wellness Support Group.

Below are a few nuggets that we learned on the 3 different topics.

Altered Food--------The Great yogurt Health Hoax

1. Many commercial yogurts contain
  1. a lot of sugar
  2. artificial flavors
  3. artificial colors
  4. carrageen or other harmful additives 
2. Best to make your own
3. When you need to purchase a healthy yogurt look for those (Taken from an interview by Dr Mercola with Mark Kastel of the Cornucopia Institute)
  1. VAT pasteurized at relatively low temperature
  2. made from raw milk
  3. organic yogurt and that made from 100% [grass-fed or pastured milk][0].
  4. And you'll want [_whole_ milk][1], not low-fat or skim. As reported by the George Mateljan Foundation:[7][2]
    1. _"Because grass feeding of cows can increase the healthfulness of fats in their body, milk from those cows can be a source of high-quality fats for making yogurt. Lactic acid bacteria used to ferment milk into yogurt have now been shown to take some of its fatty acids and convert them into conjugated linoleic acid (CLA)._
    2. _A fairly conservative estimate of the CLA in grass-fed yogurt would be about 8 milligrams per liquid ounce. Research is linking our CLA intake to decreased risk of many health problems, including heart attack, blood sugar imbalance, excessive inflammation, and loss of bone mass._
    3. _One of the reasons we generally recommend grass-fed yogurts from whole milk is that nonfat and skim-milk yogurts---while still healthy in many ways---cannot naturally provide this same level of CLA or other high-quality fats like the omega-3s found in most whole milk yogurts."_
  5. _Live and Active Cultures_,  might not mean what you think. The Cornucopia report took a look at the food industry's labeling campaign, _Live and Active Cultures_, which is supposed to help consumers select products with high levels of healthy probiotics.

To assess probiotic content, Cornucopia tested yogurt purchased directly from grocery stores instead of following the industry's practice of testing levels at the factory. As it turns out, many of the brands bearing the 

_Live and Active Cultures_

label contain LOWER levels of probiotics than the top-rated organic brands in 

[Cornucopia's report and scorecard][3]

that are not part of the 

_Live and Active_

campaign.

(For a snack we had organic apples which Walmart now carries and Maple hill Creamery whole milk 100% grass fed cows yogurt which GreenAcres Market carries mixed with vanilla and Trehalose. We also had the Maple Hill Creamery yogurt mixed with dill and sea salt for a great vegetable dip. We were amazed to learn where our favorite or most popular yogurts were on the scorecard. Take a look, you may be surprised as well.)

What's real about synthetic?  ---Calcium Supplements and Heart Attacks

1.   1. A study of nearly 24,000 men and women in Heidelberg, Germany found that those who obtained their calcium exclusively from inorganic supplements were 2.7 times more likely than non-users to experience a heart attack. The research was published in July 2012 in the journal, _Heart._
  2. The food matrix is essential to the bioavailability of minerals like calcium.
  3. Always ensure that you supplement vitamins and minerals with a 100% plant-based supplement.

Glycobiology---------Sugar Nutrients and Blood Sugar

1.   1. Trehalose is a functional sugar that promotes cell to cell communication
  2. Trehalose Sugar Study in Obese Men
    1. A crossover randomized study testing this functional sugar concluded  "Trehalose, alone or in combination with fructose, elicited lower glycemic and insulinemic responses in obese men as compared with glucose alone, and may have advantages in the development of food products".
null

[0]: http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2014/05/21/grass-fed-beef-dairy.aspx
[1]: http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2014/09/29/full-fat-dairy-products.aspx
[2]: http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2015/05/20/healthy-yogurt.aspx#_edn7
[3]: http://www.cornucopia.org/yogurt/